# CS340-Client-Server-Development
How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
--
Programs are made to be maintainable, readable, and adaptable by 1) avoiding hardcoded values, 2) using generic naming conventions, and 3) handling exceptions. The CRUD Python module included in this repository passes a user's login information for database access as parameters rather than literal values. Variables are given generic names like "query" to indicate their foundational purposes, regardless of specific database information. The class itself is given the generic name MongoDB_CRUD to convey it's use for CRUD operations on any MongoDB database. Creating the module with these qualities in mind made it reusable for several assignments in this course. In the future, it could be used with different databases and dashboards, truly making it the foundation for Controller functionality.

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
--
I approach problems by reviewing the deliverables. The client included specifications from the UI/UX designer, which guided my creation of the dashboard in addition to SNHU's instruction. For example, the design document specified that the client's logo must also act as a link to their homepage when clicked, so I figured out how to accomplish this and fit it into my existing flex display. Although figuring out that syntax required online research, I solve other problems by reviewing any existing code structures. Creating new flex displays was only a matter of mimicking the existing ones. This approach lets me solve problems faster while adhering to the code's design, meaning I don't have to sacrifice readability to add a new element. For future database work and client requests, I will continue to emphasize deliverables and review the resources I'm given (design documents, existing code) to problem solve.

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
--
Computer scientists learn and work with programming languages to produce outcomes like player movement in a video game or dashboard changes from a button press. This matters because it allows for communication between parties, whether its a player and a video game or a student and a word processor. This information can then be used for decision-making, like a professor grading a student's submitted work from a .docx file. These examples help illustrate an otherwise lofty point to make, but the gist is that computer science allows humans to interface with technology in meaningful ways. My work on this type of project helps a company like Grazioso Salvare find information they need more quickly, such as by easily viewing and querying a database of shelter animals in Austin, TX for their rescue operation qualifications. This is a faster process than calling a shelter and asking them to list relevant animals one-by-one, for instance. If the dashboard speeds up the rescue animal adoption process, then it also quickens the availability of rescue missions, meaning more lives might be saved in a disaster.
